Martha Martha She was a hard-working, hospitable woman.
The Bible tells us that Jesus loved Martha and her sister Mary and their brother Lazarus.
When Lazarus took ill, Martha surely did everything in her power to soothe his discomfort.
She was so concerned with her brother's condition that she and her sister Mary sent a message
to Jesus as recorded at John 113, saying, Lord, see, the one for whom you have affection
is sick.
Martha knew that Lazarus was seriously ill.
She must have felt helpless as Lazarus sank deeper into his illness and then died.
What would Martha do?
Would she give in to despair and would grief overpower her and weaken her faith?
As you watch the following video, try to imagine Martha's grief when her brother died.
During those first few days, everything was a blur.
My sister Mary and I had never felt so empty and lost.
I knew that if our Lord had been here, our brother would not have died.
But through the tears and the pain, I had no doubt that the resurrection was real.
Someday, someday, he would live again.
Who could have imagined it could happen that very day and right before our eyes,
we wept here's a joy and thanked our loving father in heaven, Jehovah.
Empathy helps us to feel the pain and the distress that Martha felt when Lazarus died.
The Bible account tells us that Jesus traveled to Bethany where Martha lived,
but he did not arrive before Lazarus died.
In fact, he came four days after Lazarus had died.
When Jesus met with Martha, she expressed faith that Jesus could have healed Lazarus,
and she felt that Jesus might yet help her brother.
The scriptures show that she also believed in the future resurrection.
Martha must have been thinking about miracles that Jesus had performed,
and the people who had been healed by him.
And she had no doubt that Jesus was the Christ and that he could perform miracles.
Read with me what the Bible says about Martha's faith in the resurrection,
and her confidence in Jesus.
It's found at John chapter 11 verses 21 through 26.
It reads as follows.
Martha then said to Jesus,
Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
She didn't say this to reproach Jesus.
She merely stated a fact.
And then she goes on.
She says, yet even now, I know that whatever you ask God for, God will give you.
Jesus said to her, your brother will rise.
Martha said to him, I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day.
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life.
The one who exercises faith in me, even though he dies, will come to life.
And everyone who is living in exercises faith in me will never die at all.
Do you believe this?
In verse 27, Martha makes one of the most important statements that would ever pass her lips.
It reads, she said to him,
Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the One coming into the world.
We can only imagine how much her faith was appreciated by Jesus.
Jesus Christ has the same appreciation for us as we show our faith in His promises.
In the following dramatization, observe how a sister's faith brings her comfort.
I lost my son, I lost part of myself, I tried to stay busy, but everything felt empty.
In my darkest times, Jehovah's words brought me comfort.
Not a day goes by that I don't think about branding, not just memories of how it was.
But even more, how wonderful it'll be to see Him soon in God's new world.
Like Martha, we can build our faith in the resurrection by carefully considering all that God's
word says about it. Think of all the evidence there is that Jesus was resurrected.
The scriptures show clearly that after His death and resurrection, Jesus showed Himself alive
to His disciples. He also appeared to Saul of Tarsus, who became the Apostle Paul.
In his letter to the Corinthians, Paul points out that more than 500 brothers saw the resurrect
to Jesus. And to show that it was not just hearsay, Paul tells us that most of those eyewitnesses
were still alive when He wrote to the Corinthians. Yes, they were living witnesses who could verify
the fact that Jesus was resurrected from the dead. And think about the inspired assurance
that we have at Revelation 21, 3, and 4, that the time is coming when death will be no more.
When you think about it, who is it that declares that death will be no more at Revelation 21,
3, and 4? None other than the resurrected Jesus Christ. We do well to imitate Martha by
maintaining strong faith when we face the loss of a loved one. No, it's not easy. It's painful.
But we can do it knowing full well that this life is not all there is.
All true Christians must have faith in the resurrection. Faith that the dead will live again
and that death will be done away with in God's new world.
Jehovah and His Son rewarded the faith of Martha, Mary, and Lazarus. We will be rewarded too
if we build strong faith like that of Martha. Brother Garrett Lush, a member of the governing body,
will now present the final talk of this symposium.
Immitate women of strong faith. Modern day examples.